samples: bluetooth: direct_test_mode: use SDC (#29411)
nrfconnect/sdk-nrf: samples/bluetooth/direct_test_mode/README.rst

* Packet error rate
* Intermodulation performance

Test procedures are defined in the document `Bluetooth Low Energy RF PHY Test Specification <Bluetooth Low Energy RF PHY Test Specification_>`_.

You can carry out conformance tests using dedicated test equipment, such as the Anritsu MT8852 or similar, with an nRF5 running the DTM sample set as device under test (DUT).

Implementation
==============

The sample uses the :ref:`dtm_twowire_to_hci_readme` library to convert between 2-wire UART commands and events and Bluetooth LE HCI commands and events.
It also implements a transport module that uses Zephyr UART APIs to read and write 2-wire commands and events on the UART interface.

The sample application in :file:`src/main.c` runs the following loop:

1. Wait for a 2-wire UART command with :c:func:`dtm_tw_transport_read`.

> 2. Call :c:func:`dtm_tw_to_hci_process_tw_cmd`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Wait for a 2-wire UART command using the :c:func:`dtm_tw_transport_read` function.
#. Call the :c:func:`dtm_tw_to_hci_process_tw_cmd` function.
```

   * If the result is a 2-wire event, send the event immediately on UART with :c:func:`dtm_tw_transport_write`.

>    * If the result is an HCI command, send it through ``bt_send()``, wait for HCI event, generate the appropriate 2-wire event with :c:func:`dtm_tw_to_hci_process_hci_event`, then send the produced 2-wire event with :c:func:`dtm_tw_transport_write`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   * If the result is a 2-wire event, send the event immediately on UART using the :c:func:`dtm_tw_transport_write` function.
   * If the result is an HCI command, send it through ``bt_send()``, wait for the HCI event, generate the appropriate 2-wire event using the :c:func:`dtm_tw_to_hci_process_hci_event` function, then send the produced 2-wire event using :c:func:`dtm_tw_transport_write`.
```

If you want to view the debug messages, follow the procedure in :ref:`testing_rtt_connect`.
For more information about debugging in the |NCS|, see :ref:`debugging`.

.. note::
   The default configuration disables all logging, so you need to enable the logging options to view the debug messages.
   See the Configuration section for details.

Configuration
*************
|config|

> Configuration options

Reviewer 2: Is there a reason to delete this sub heading? The section described Kconfig options so we could retain that.

Author: You are right, there is no need to remove this sub heading. I reverted this change back :)

If you want to view the debug messages, follow the procedure in :ref:`testing_rtt_connect`.
For more information about debugging in the |NCS|, see :ref:`debugging`.

.. note::
   The default configuration disables all logging, so you need to enable the logging options to view the debug messages.
   See the Configuration section for details.

Configuration
*************
|config|

> The default sample configuration is in :file:`prj.conf`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The default sample configuration is in the :file:`prj.conf` file.
```

Testing with a certified tester
-------------------------------

Conformance testing is performed using a certified tester, such as Anritsu MT8852.
The setup and test procedures depend on the tester used.
Details about the test operation are available in the tester documentation.
The tester handles sending DTM test commands and reading transmitted signals or sending received signals.

The application note `nAN34`_ describes two alternatives for setting up a production test with DTM using one of our old devices.

.. _direct_test_mode_testing_board:

Testing with another development kit
------------------------------------

To test with another development kit running the same sample, you need to send DTM 2-wire UART commands to the kits.
You can send these commands using one of the following methods:

.. _direct_test_mode_testing_app:

> 

Reviewer: This requires a title to make the link work. Add for example:

```
Other testing options
---------------------
```

Author: thanks, it seems documentation built after adding the title! :)

Testing with a certified tester
-------------------------------

Conformance testing is performed using a certified tester, such as an Anritsu MT8852 tester.

> The setup and test procedures depend on the tester used, and details about the test operation must be found in the tester documentation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Conformance testing is performed using a certified tester, such as Anritsu MT8852.
The setup and test procedures depend on the tester used.
Details about the test operation are available in the tester documentation.
```

Testing with another development kit
------------------------------------

To test with another development kit running the same sample, you need to send DTM 2-wire UART commands to the kits.
You can send these commands using one of the following methods:

**Option A: Using the Direct Test Mode app**

The `Direct Test Mode app`_ in `nRF Connect for Desktop`_ generates and sends commands automatically.

1. Connect both development kits to the computer using a USB cable.
#. Start the `Direct Test Mode app`_ in `nRF Connect for Desktop`_ and select one of the development kits.
#. Set the Transmitter mode and configure the test parameters (frequency, packet pattern, length, etc.).
   For example, use channel 37 (2402 MHz) with ``10101010`` packet pattern and 37-byte packet length.
#. Start the test.
   The app will send the ``TRANSMITTER_TEST`` command to the kit.
#. Observe the ``TEST_STATUS_EVENT`` response with the SUCCESS status field.
#. On the second kit, start the `Direct Test Mode app`_ and select it in the application.
#. Set the Receiver mode with matching test parameters.
#. Start the test.
   The app will send the ``RECEIVER_TEST`` command to the kit.

> #. Observe the ``TEST_STATUS_EVENT`` response, and then observe the packet count increasing on the application chart.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#. Observe the ``TEST_STATUS_EVENT`` response and the packet count increasing on the application chart.
```

#. Stop the test on the receiver kit, and observe the ``PACKET_REPORTING_EVENT`` with the received packet count.
#. Swap roles and repeat the test in the reverse direction.

**Option B: Sending raw DTM commands**

> You can send raw DTM 2-wire UART commands using e.g. a serial terminal emulator.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can send raw DTM 2-wire UART commands using, for example, a serial terminal emulator.
```

See `Direct Test Mode terminal connection`_ for the required serial port settings and command format.

1. Connect both development kits to the computer using a USB cable.
   The computer assigns to each development kit a serial port.
   |serial_port_number_list|
#. Connect both kits with a terminal emulator.
   See `Direct Test Mode terminal connection`_ for the required settings.
#. Start ``TRANSMITTER_TEST`` on one kit by sending the ``0x80 0x96`` DTM command.
   This command will trigger TX activity on the 2402 MHz frequency (1st channel) with ``10101010`` packet pattern and 37-byte packet length.
#. Observe that you received the ``TEST_STATUS_EVENT`` packet in response with the SUCCESS status field: ``0x00 0x00``.
#. Start ``RECEIVER_TEST`` on the second kit by sending the ``0x40 0x96`` DTM command.
   Command parameters are identical to the ones used for the ``TRANSMITTER_TEST`` command.
#. Observe that you received the ``TEST_STATUS_EVENT`` packet in response with the SUCCESS status field: ``0x00 0x00``.
#. Finish RX testing on the second kit using the ``TEST_END`` DTM command by sending the ``0xC0 0x00`` packet.

> #. Observe that you received the ``PACKET_REPORTING_EVENT`` packet in response, indicated by the most significant bit set to 1.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#. Observe that you received the ``PACKET_REPORTING_EVENT`` packet in response, indicated by the most significant bit set to ``1``.
```

>    The other 15 bits of the event contain the number of received packets, i.e. you can subtract ``0x8000`` from the event (big endian) to get the packet count.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   The other 15 bits of the event contain the number of received packets, which means you can subtract ``0x8000`` from the event (big endian) to get the packet count.
```

   For example, the ``0xD6 0xAC`` message indicates that 22188 radio packets have been received.
#. Experiment with other combinations of commands and their parameters.

>    The protocol is defined in `Bluetooth® Core Specification <Bluetooth Core Specification_>`_ Vol. 6, Part F, 3 UART Test Interface.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   The protocol is defined in `Bluetooth Core Specification <Bluetooth Core Specification_>`_ Vol. 6, Part F, 3 UART Test Interface.
```
Trademark needed only in the first instance of Bluetooth in each page.

      sudo echo -ne "\x00\x00" > /dev/serial/by-id/usb-SEGGER_J-Link_000683580193-if00

Limitations
***********

> This sample inherits the limitations of the DTM 2-wire UART to HCI conversion library, see :ref:`dtm_twowire_to_hci_readme` (section **Limitations**).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This sample inherits the limitations of the DTM 2-wire UART to HCI conversion library.
See :ref:`dtm_twowire_to_hci_readme` (section Limitations).
```

Dependencies
************

> This sample uses the following |NCS| libraries:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This sample uses the following |NCS| library:
```
